as mentioned this is what I look like
when I'm completely exhausted no makeup
no intro no moto Real Talk violence and
non-violence in theory and in practice
remain profoundly important fundamental
issues for vegans to be able to get to
grips with and again why is that it's
not just because violence is a means to
an end but violence sheeps the end
sheeps the objective so profoundly of
what you're trying to do that it
pollutes or it distorts all of the
stages leading up to that so the Green
Party are using the same example when I
was there they were not even thinking
about having a magazine that talked
about science so you know like science
news new scientific stuff in relation to
ecology even though is so obvious like
if you're doing fundraising you want
people to donate money to you because
you're an ecological movement the type
of people who donate money they will
really value a magazine that comes at
every three months telling you about
recent events you know within Canada but
recent scientific discoveries recent
research related to ecology related to
pollution in some River or that's what
those people want to read about but that
was a shockingly new idea the shockingly
original idea to people inside the Green
Party when I presented them not because
they're stupid oh no some of them are
stupid but they do not think in those
terms at all because the paradigm of
violent revolution the paradigm that
outcome thinking in those terms means
they're not thinking about the really
constructive methods of how to build a
constituency of how to build an
effective movement there is just no
reason why preaching a transition to
electrical cars would result in the pool
rising up that way even if the poor or
oppressed in some countries the poor
really are oppressed still today in 2016
in some countries the peasants are
oppressed the factory workers are
pressed we can say yes that's the truth
however if they're going to rise up
maybe they're going to rise up violently
to demand more money to demand a No
that our healthcare maybe there's
something they're going to rise up for
but it's not going to be ecology it's
not going to be a vegan diet it's not
going to be animal rights you're kidding
yourself and you're really making a kind
of phony carbon copy of the hype for
communist revolutions which today I feel
is is fully 200 years at a date this is
an echo of [ __ ] made up about the
French Revolution this kind of
irrelevant radicalism totally
counterproductive radicalism that can't
can't help you with ecology can't help
you with political organization can't
help you with any other type of
community organizations of the talking
about and and it's a way of thinking
about social change that because it is
rooted in violence and its ultimate
ultimate objectives or violence and it's
means or balance it never thinks through
the type of examples you guys have heard
me talk about ten times in this channel
what about cigarette smoking and house
cigarette smoking is change in society
what about social organizations like
Mothers Against Drunk Driving really
effective non party forms of activism
when I first started talking about
cigarette smoking and government
attempts to discourage nicotine and
social activist movements in relation to
nicotine and alcohol Mothers Against
Drunk Driving
cigarette smoking when I started talking
about that on YouTube many vegans
written to me and said well that's a
shockingly original idea they never
thought of those comparisons why again
not because they're stupid although
stupidity is real many of the people
involved are stupid they had never
thought of those things because the
paradigm of violence this objective
these methods so distort the discourse
so direct your attention away from
really salient considerations of
effective activism of how do we organize
the movement what are our methods what
are our means what are outcomes
[Music]